---
title: "Study of phase separation in an InGaN alloy by electron energy loss spectroscopy in an aberration corrected monochromated scanning transmission electron microscope"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/JMR2017
# excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 2. The number 3 is left for future work.'
date: 2017-03-14
venue: 'Journal of Materials Research'
# paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1557/jmr.2016.447'
# citation: 'Your Name, You. (2010). &quot;Paper Title Number 2.&quot; <i>Journal of Materials Research</i>. 1(2).'
citation: 'T. Walther, X. Wang, <b>V. C. Angadi</b>, P. Ruterana, P. Longo and T. Aoki (2017), &quot;Study of phase separation in an InGaN alloy by electron energy loss spectroscopy in an aberration corrected monochromated scanning transmission electron microscope&quot;, <i>Journal of Material Research</i>, 32(5), pp. 983-995.'
---
Phase separation of In<sub>x</sub>Ga<sub>1−x</sub>N into Ga-rich and In-rich regions has been studied by electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) in a monochromated, aberration corrected scanning transmission electron microscope (STEM). We analyze the full spectral information contained in EELS of InGaN, combining for the first time studies of high-energy and low-energy ionization edges, plasmon, and valence losses. Elemental maps of the N K, In M<sub>4,5</sub> and Ga L<sub>2,3</sub> edges recorded by spectrum imaging at 100 kV reveal sub-nm fluctuations of the local indium content. The low energetic edges of Ga M<sub>4,5</sub> and In N<sub>4,5</sub> partially overlap with the plasmon peaks. Both have been fitted iteratively to a linear superimposition of reference spectra for GaN, InN, and InGaN, providing a direct measurement of phase separation at the nm-scale. Bandgap measurements are limited in real space by scattering delocalization rather than the electron beam size to ∼10 nm for small bandgaps, and their energetic accuracy by the method of fitting the onset of the joint density of states rather than energy resolution. For an In<sub>0.62</sub>Ga<sub>0.38</sub>N thin film we show that phase separation occurs on several length scales.

[Download paper here](https://doi.org/10.1557/jmr.2016.447)

Recommended citation: T. Walther, X. Wang, <b>V. C. Angadi</b>, P. Ruterana, P. Longo and T. Aoki (2017), &quot;Study of phase separation in an InGaN alloy by electron energy loss spectroscopy in an aberration corrected monochromated scanning transmission electron microscope&quot;, <i>Journal of Material Research</i>, 32(5), pp. 983-995.